---
title: "Get Started on Your Game Music Journey: Easy Ways to Create Video
  Game-Like Music"
metatitle: "Get Started on Your Game Music Journey: Easy Ways to Create Video
  Game-Like Music"
description: Creating video game music can seem intimidating, but it doesn't
  have to be. Learn easy ways to start making video game-like music with tools
  like digital audio workstations, MIDI controllers, pre-made loops, chiptune
  music, royalty-free libraries and more. Get tips and tricks to help you on
  your game music journey, whether you are a beginner or an experienced
  musician. Start creating your own game music today!
date: 2023-01-30T02:14:00.906Z
image: /1a31248a-5c95-4515-a157-49db6b987476.jpeg
category: Guides
type: Guides
---
Making video game music can seem like a daunting task, but it doesn't have to be. With the right tools and knowledge, anyone can start creating music for their games. In this article, we will explore some easy ways to get started making video game music.

First and foremost, you will need a digital audio workstation (DAW) and a MIDI controller or keyboard. A DAW is a software that allows you to record, edit, and produce music. Some popular DAWs include Ableton Live, Logic Pro, and FL Studio. A MIDI controller or keyboard is a device that allows you to input notes and control your DAW.

One easy way to create game music is by using pre-made loops and samples. Many DAWs come with a library of pre-made loops and samples that you can use to create your game music. This can be a quick and easy way to get started and can save you time on the composition process.

Another easy way to create game music is by using chiptune music. Chiptune music uses the sounds of 8-bit and 16-bit video game consoles to create retro-style music. This can be a fun and easy way to create game music that has a nostalgic feel.

If you're looking for a cost-effective way to get high-quality music without having to compose it yourself, you can use royalty-free music libraries. There are many websites that offer royalty-free music that you can use in your game.

Generative music is another easy way to create game music. Generative music is a type of music that is generated by an algorithm. There are software and online tools that can help you create generative music without any prior knowledge of music theory.

Finally, using MIDI files is another easy way to create game music. MIDI files are a type of digital sheet music that can be loaded into a DAW and played by virtual instruments. You can find many MIDI files online and use them as a starting point for your game music.

In conclusion, creating video game music can be fun and easy with the right tools and knowledge. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced musician, there are many ways to get started making game music. Remember to always ensure you have the legal rights to use the music or sounds you use in your game.